# Music Project Portal

## Description

### Why? (the lengthy version)
I have been a professional music director for many years and I have never found an effective way
to share projects information with the planning team and the musicians involved. Now that my career is moving towards 
software engineering and music becoming my hobby, I told myself "Why don't you make your own?!". 

The projects I organise and then perform as conductor have a limited complexity not worthy of more elaborated and expensive software, but still requiring 
something more flexible and more "stylish" than a spreadsheet attached to an email.

I have few master project databases and I want to share only the necessary information (specific queries) with the appropriate groups. I do my planning in Notion, which allow sharing
database information in a nice and accessible format, but sharing the queries means sharing the entire database which might contains private or not project related info. 
At the same time I do not want to create and share separate databases for every project and keep them updated, a lot of unnecessary extra work to manually copy and paste and maintain updates.

### What?
I have started this journey writing [this python app](https://github.com/enrico-laboratory/Notion_database_parser). I am now refactoring this very raw app, here in Java. 

For now, it comprised the module Notion Database Parser, still work in progress, and the Json to Google Spreadsheet module.

The Notion Database Parser will get the projects related databases via the Notion API, convert them in Java objects and pars them.

The second and temporary module, Json to Google Spreadsheet, parses the json generated by the Notion API and parsed by my other python app, extracts the needed information and share them, for now, via Google Spreadsheets. 
I know, I did not want to share spreadsheets but it is good for a temporary solution and allowed me to work with different APIs and learn a lot from them.

Next possible steps:
* upload the parsed Notion Databases to a mysql database
* serve the databases via a web application, using Spring framework

## Modules

### Notion Database Parser
Working in progress

### Json to Google Spreadsheet

Module that upload specific json files to Google Spreadsheet.
The json files contain master tables related to personal music project planning.
The master tables are parsed and divided in sub-tables containing records for specific projects.
A Google spreadsheet is created for each project and the sub-tables are uploaded to the relevant sheets in the spreadsheet

* mapping json files to java objects via Gson
* converting java objects to list of lists, Google Spreadsheet format
* creating spreadsheets and related sheets 
* uploading of the list of lists to created spreadsheet parsed per project
* formatting spreadsheet 
